Initial commit :rocket: (#1)
Financial-Times/o-spacing: README.md

o-spacing [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/o-spacing/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/o-spacing/tree/master)[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](#licence)
=================

_Maintain consistent spaces across components and projects in accordance to our baseline grid and design guidelines._

- [Markup](#markup)
- [CSS Custom Properties](#css-custom-properties)
- [Sass](#sass)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [Migration](#migration)
- [Contact](#contact)
- [Licence](#licence)

For [Build Service](https://www.ft.com/__origami/service/build/v2/) users, `o-spacing` provides [CSS classes](#markup) for vertical space and [CSS Custom Properties (CSS Variables)](#css-custom-properties) for other usecases. For Sass users `o-spacing` also provides a number of [Sass functions and mixins](#sass) for applying space to a project.

### Spaces

> ![named-spaces](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/10405691/57918050-e9381780-788d-11e9-8310-ba5053c0c84a.png)

Reviewer: Where does the original image live? Should it be in the repo?

Author: It lives in the UXD Toolkit Sketch file. I'll add a link to it https://uxd.in.ft.com/standards/

Author: Sorry linked to the wrong site before.

o-spacing [![Circle CI](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/o-spacing/tree/master.svg?style=svg)](https://circleci.com/gh/Financial-Times/o-spacing/tree/master)[![MIT licensed](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-MIT-blue.svg)](#licence)
=================

_Maintain consistent spaces across components and projects in accordance to our baseline grid and design guidelines._

- [Markup](#markup)
- [CSS Custom Properties](#css-custom-properties)
- [Sass](#sass)

> - [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

Author: Good catch 👍

_The above illustration is taken from the [UXD Sketch Toolkit](https://sites.google.com/ft.com/ft-design-system)._

#### Baseline

Our baseline grid defaults to 4px. Any space on this baseline grid may be applied (any multiple of 4px). However for consistency we recommend our [named spaces](#named-spaces).

#### Named Spaces

Named spaces are the sizes we recommend to consistently layout a component or page. Each space is based on our 4px baseline. Small sizes such as `s1`, `s2` are ideal for space within a component; use medium sizes `m12` and `m16` for related content on a page; and large sizes `l18`, `l24` for separating distinct area of a project.

| name | value |
|------|-------|
| s1 | 4px |
| s2 | 8px |
| s3 | 12px |
| s4 | 16px |
| s6 | 24px |
| s8 | 32px |
| m12 | 48px |
| m16 | 64px |
| l18 | 72px |
| l24 | 96px |

To apply named spaces see `o-spacing` [markup](#markup) and [Sass](#sass) documentation.

### Markup

`o-spacing` provides utility classes to help space Origami components vertically within your project.

```html

> <!-- Add a 48px vertical margin between elements. -->

Reviewer 2: Above _and_ below?

Author: Just below, i.e. like typography headings

<div class='o-spacing-m12'></div>
<div class='o-spacing-m12'></div>
```

To apply spaces to other properties `o-spacing` provides [CSS Custom Properties (CSS Variables)](#css-custom-properties).

### CSS Custom Properties

### Named Space Custom Properties

`o-spacing` outputs a CSS Custom Property (CSS Variable) for each named space. E.g. `--o-spacing-s1`. These may be used to apply spaces in custom CSS if your project [supports](https://caniuse.com/#feat=css-variables) CSS Custom Properties. This is particularly useful for [Build Service](https://www.ft.com/__origami/service/build/v2/) users who do not have access to `o-spacing`'s [Sass](#sass) functions.

```css
.example {
	margin: var(--o-spacing-s1);
}
```

### Baseline Custom Property

We recommend using a [named space](#named-spaces), but for more granular control a project may output any space which is a multiple of our baseline value. For users who do not have access to Sass, `o-spacing` outputs a `--o-spacing-baseline` CSS variable.

```css
.example {

> 	padding: calc(var(--o-spacing-baseline) * 1); // A small padding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	padding: calc(var(--o-spacing-baseline) * 1); // A small padding (4px).
```

> 	margin-bottom: calc(var(--o-spacing-baseline) * 4); // A large space.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	margin-bottom: calc(var(--o-spacing-baseline) * 4); // A large space (16px).
```

}
```

### Sass

### Relative Units

> For compatibility with existing Origami projects, `o-spacing` outputs `px` values by default. To use relative `rem` values, set `$o-spacing-relative-units: true` before importing `o-spacing`.

Reviewer 2: Could we include a code snippet as an example?

_If using `o-typography` set [$o-typography-relative-units](https://registry.origami.ft.com/components/o-typography@5.11.3/sassdoc?brand=master#variable-o-typography-relative-units) also._

### Named Space

We recommend Sass users apply space to their project using the `oSpaceByName` function. It accepts a [space name](#named-spaces) and returns a `px` value (or `rem` value, if [relative units](#relative-units) are enabled).

```css
	.example {

> 		padding: oSpaceByName('s1');  // Small padding.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		padding: oSpaceByName('s1');  // Small padding (4px).
```

> 		margin-bottom: oSpaceByName('m12'); // Medium margin.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		margin-bottom: oSpaceByName('m12'); // Medium margin (48px).
```

	}
```

### Baseline Space

> We recommend users apply [named spaces](#named-space), but any space which is a multiple of our [baseline](#baseline) is allowed. To apply a multiple of the baseline value use `oSpaceByIncrement`. It accepts a increment to multiply the baseline value by and returns a `px` value (or `rem` value, if [relative units](#relative-units) are enabled).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
We recommend the use of [named spaces](#named-space), but any space that multiplies our [baseline](#baseline) is allowed. To apply a multiple of the baseline value use `oSpaceByIncrement`. It accepts a value to multiply the baseline by and returns a `px` value (or `rem` value, if [relative units](#relative-units) are enabled).
```
